[Applause]
good afternoon and welcome to session
613 migrating UNIX his admin tools to
Makka was 10 what I think we have a
really nice panel of experts who are
going to tell you about various
experiences moving their tools over to
Matco is 10 that we very helpful we
already know that mac OS 10 is the best
development environment it's also a
fantastic sued admin environment and
using all these Apple technologies
wirelessly connected being able to
manage giant racks of servers in your
data center is a blast a lot of fun
today we have Kevin Boyd who is going to
from the University of Michigan who will
explain what the environment is like for
University of Michigan and their
experience of bringing over their tools
for a very diverse group of Sue's admins
and managers next up what car Malik of
our developer technical support is going
to explain some of the gotchas importing
over some of your scripts and tools and
applications you've written and and
finally Mike Bombeck of our field
consulting engineers well known for his
work on the side and his fantastic tool
that we all use is going to describe how
to build a great GUI interface on top of
those command line tools so first off
I'd like to introduce Kevin void
University of Michigan and on the
steering committee of Mac os10 labs org
Kevin thanks a lot skip
hi today I'm going to talk to you guys
about how we as developers can work with
administrators from all different types
of computing platforms to create
applications that administrators will
want to use in Mac OS 10 Who am I good
question I'm a administrator at the
University of Michigan and also I am one
of the steering committee members for
the UEF lab group that also runs the
site that's known as Mac os10 labs org
and my responsibilities primarily have
been in relationship to this project
development of lab management tools that
ease the transition from some other
computing platform to Mac OS 10 at the
University of Michigan this is a very
complex environment known as a
distributed computing environment which
has a lot of potential challenges for
administrators and developers because of
the distribute computing environment
there's the ability given to our
administrators to pick any type of
computing platforms and any type of
operating systems that they may want to
run inside of their own environments and
we'll get into more detail on that in a
moment it's a great graphic here it
really looks really good if you can see
the whole picture it has a whole bunch
of computers and arrows and things
plenty of each other I don't think it
made the final cut okay so if we go back
in time we can look at how Mac OS 9 was
managed at the University of Michigan
and we start to see why administrators
like the Macintosh experience when it
came to managing machines in their
environment it was easy to manage
because of the operating system it had
an easy-to-use interface it was
intuitive and it didn't take a lot of
learning for you to understand how to
use a Macintosh computer and it was
accepted for users to go out
administrators to go out onto the net
contact third parties do whatever it
takes to make the machine as secure and
consistent computer
platform for you inside of a lab
management environment at the same time
on our campus we had many other
platforms that were unix-based and these
people had skills that allow them to
manage their machines but the learning
curve was incredibly steep and the
ability to manage the machines was
incredibly difficult and these two
groups really could not have skills that
transferred from one group to the other
we at Michigan saw Mac os10 as an
opportunity to take all of our
experiences creating utilities and tools
for managing machines in OS 9 and in
UNIX and combining them in such a way
that we could have truly the holy grail
of computing and lab administration
which would be ease of use ease of
migration ease of integration and also
to be able to say I have skills that
I've gained from learning how to use
this machine that can be transferred
from other computing platforms I have a
skill set that applies not only to these
Macintosh computers that can also be
used in other environments as well so
we've leveraged our experiences in these
environments we've developed
applications that you've heard about
throughout the week or at our site or
you know we can talk about them here too
that have really taken advantage of all
this experience the challenge has been
how are we going to continue to make
tools that administrators want to use so
let's take a look at one of the places
where I had a chance to spend some time
at the University of Michigan developing
tools for mac OS 9 users and from there
we can decide whether or not these are
why was it successful what did we do
that was so successful what happened
here that we can tell developers go out
and do this and it will make mac OS 9
users want to use Mac OS 10 as we
already stated the University of
Michigan is a distributed computing
environment and with the freedoms that
we allow administrators to have it
presents enterprise computing and its
most complex level because there's
freedoms in terms of hardware software
data people and procedures that we
let the administrators have in order to
create their computing environment the
same time we want to have the users that
use these computers computing
environments to have a consistent
computing experience from one lab to
another so let's focus now our
discussion a little bit and talk about
the School of Art and Design at the
University of Michigan I've spent a lot
of time with the OS 9 administrators
there and that's really where I became
involved in OS 10 so here we have the
traditional view of Mac OS 9 and why
people like using Mac OS 9 and we have
the traditional view of UNIX and how
people use unix and what was good about
each platform utilities like a simulator
were nice because well to put it simply
it was easy use it didn't require you to
know a lot about the underpinnings of
the machine in order to manage a large
set of computers in your computing
environment however tools like this and
almost all the tools that were available
for Mac OS 9 didn't scale they weren't
readily usable in a wide range of
machines across an entire computing
enterprise while on the other hand the
UNIX operating systems gave you all of
the network integration technologies
that you needed for enterprise computing
but learning how to implement them
learning how to use them correctly and
learning how to make them fit into your
environment required incredibly steep
learning curve so we have the problem
laid out how do we create tools that
administrators will use well I think the
first thing we need to do is identify
the expectations and the benefits that
began can be gained from looking at our
core audience who are we trying to help
who are we trying to create these
applications for I think we can be
divided into three groups you have your
diehard Mac OS 9 administrators these
are people who even today are still not
migrated still have not decided to take
a look at mac OS 10 you have your
hardcore unix administrators these are
people who they may say things like mac
OS 10 is in a real OS it's not a real
UNIX well we all know it is and it's up
to us as developers to prove to them
that it is
and you have your Mac os10
administrators these are people who
realize the power of UNIX because of the
ease of aqua and the underpinnings of
the UNIX subsystem so they have
expectations as well meeting all three
of their needs i think is just the first
step into creating application that not
only will these people use but it will
find uses that you may never have
thought of what do Mac OS 9
administrators want mac OS 9
administrators they want to know what
your application does before you even
tell them what it does they want to be
able to look on the screen and no
intuitive ly what to do they want help
in the form of tooltips or any other
type of documentation on screen if it's
not readily apparent to you or to them
what their application does for OS 10
they want it to look like it belongs in
OS 10 if it came from some other
operating system user that other
operating system was a previous magnet
operating system and obviously if
they're running it in Mac OS 10 and you
brought it from some other platform they
may be familiar with it should not
require any learning curve hardcore
units administrators of course want
things like command lines and terminal
windows and man pages and i'm sure all
we heard this a million times over in
there all there in mac OS 10 and as
developers it's up to us to give them
what they want because obviously that
will make them accept this as a viable
platform the question of source code
comes up whenever applications are
developed for any platform and I think
the openness that Apple has given us the
chance for us to give open source code
out is another learning opportunity that
can show more people how to write
applications that will solve problems
for their particular environments and
there's maxell s-10 administrators they
realize all of this they've steamed the
light they understand what we're talking
about they know the power that they have
in front of them and they expect all
these things out of a well written
application if your application is not
well written no matter how good it does
what it's supposed to do they're
probably not going to use it they want
everything OS 9 administrators UNIX and
administrators and and other Mac os10
administrators want from this
application that you free
aided the portability of your
application pretty much requires that
you've had experience writing this
application on other platforms but if
you have they expect to be able to use
their skills and their scripts and their
command line utilities that they've
developed on other platforms with your
application as well so the standards are
very high for Mac OS 10 applications my
own experience was with Arctic X and
primarily the desire was to have an
application that hit all of these goals
and in the end gave us something that at
the time did not exist for Mac OS 10
which was a way for us to easily move
files across the network that was
essentially our mission statement for
our thing x we wanted to be able to
satisfy these audiences solve this
problem and then provide documentation
in such a way that other people could
look at what we've done and say for
themselves is this something I want to
use this relevant does this matter to me
and even if it didn't matter to them it
could be a source for them to look at in
order to learn for themselves what it
takes to develop software for the
platform so when we take all the pieces
that arts and X has become the main
application the arsenic xcd and the
package tools we see that we have all
the pieces of a puzzle that actually was
laid out before us long before we even
knew that this was going to be the
problem we were going to be solving and
the problem was for us how are we going
to get load sets out to these machines
and have OS 10 on all of them and do it
in such a way that our mac OS 9
administrators didn't feel afraid of
making the switch so now we've
identified these audiences and we've
tried to say we're going to hit them
we've worked on gathering input based on
these audiences and that came from the
web it came from hands-on experiences
and face-to-face meetings and we decided
that's the best way to make as many
people happy as possible to create this
development cycle and this development
cycle would hit the three components of
a typical Mac os10 application and those
were the eunuch underpinnings
the user interface and documentation
short changing any of these three key
pieces of the development cycle would
lead to having unhappy users of your
application and potentially who don't
want to use your application so we can
take a look at how each of these affects
the final product that you're trying to
promote there are three pieces to the
Arctic X application in the arts and X
project and primarily what we're looking
at is a command-line utility which is
the rsync terminal window application
you can open up a terminal window and
you'll see using our think dash dash
version which version of our things
you're running if it's the right one it
will save it has hfs+ supports there's a
GUI and the GUI is constantly under
revision and as of 1.7 it's still not
much to look at but it does what it's
supposed to do which is allow a user to
understand how this application works
provides tooltips and generates strips
that are highly portable so that other
unix admins can see what you've done in
this mac OS 10 environment and they can
instantly recognize what you're trying
to do and not only that they can use
these scripts and their platforms as
well so by creating the command-line
interface the graphical user interface
and providing documentation at places
like Mac os10 labs org we're able to hit
all of these key audiences the mac OS 9
users who were not familiar with this
software can look at the documentation
they can look at the website they can
look at the GUI they can try to get an
idea from that they can send email
messages to us and we can talk to them
and explain to them how to use this
application the hardcore eunuch users
get their command line interface and
their UNIX command line tools and I get
their man pages so they can feel
comfortable there and if they've already
learned how to use our think somewhere
else there's no learning curve for them
and the mac OS 10 users get the benefit
of all of these things so in a sense
they get the knowledge that can be used
other platforms they get the ability to
show OS 9 users how to use particular
application and they can feel
comfortable that yes this application
fits all my requirements because I've
seen what it can do and I can talk to
the developer and I can feel comfortable
that's going to solve my needs doing all
these things as developers I think is
crucial i just don't think there's any
way around it i don't think there's any
way you can take shortcuts to get to
having an application that people want
to use in mac OS 10 because all this
power is there and if you don't use it
if you don't explain how to use it your
application won't be considered as
viable but of course arts and x is just
a work in progress and it's just a piece
of the puzzle and it doesn't do
everything if you needed to back up
machines to local hard drives you can
use arsenic x if you needed to
distribute load sets across wide numbers
large numbers of machines across the
network you can use rsync x are there
other tools that do the exact same thing
yes so there are alternatives out there
if you find them and they're more useful
there's nothing wrong with using them
either the idea here is just that this
solve the problem for potential audience
and it's up to you to decide how do i
make my application do the same thing
there's a lot of other discussions out
there about things like comments like
version tracker for example if you have
good or bad press regarding your
software do you like it do you not like
it I said there's nothing wrong with bad
press there's nothing wrong with having
an application that people are making
comments about good or bad because guess
what that means they've tried your
application they know whether or not
they like it and they're letting you
know what you need to change in order
for them to use it so there's really no
such thing as bad press and of course
when you're developing your software i
encourage you use the developers tool CD
because the people at Apple have gone
out of their way to create this machine
that is viewed as a good neck a good
cooperative Network citizen it's up to
us to make sure it stays that way so now
i think i'm going to let what car talk
believe i'm done about migrating unix
admin tools and porting command line
tools thanks
so if you went to the apple developer
tools for unix this talk will look
familiar to you because a lot of the
same stuff is told in here so your
sifted min and you have some
applications that you have developed
they're not shell script but they're
actually application that you run so
this talk what we're going to show you
how you can bring your applications to
Mac os10 easily and quite confidently
that it will work on Mac OS 10 and it
will tell you areas investigate what to
do and where to look for information and
what you need to do what you learn from
this talk is supported ap is
compatibility api's and some different
ApS that may not be equivalent in other
unix platforms or we have equivalent of
those and it's very easy to port
applications to Mac os10 because it is
Unix so if you're unicast application
runs on another platform it will be very
easy so this is what your application
will look like so you have the top layer
which is your application you have
libraries that you link in a frameworks
which will expand later live system
which is equivalent Lib C on other
platforms but much more and then you
have the colonel and the BS via the mark
and the i/o kits available for you what
you will need make sure that you do not
uncheck the bsd subsystem when you're
installing the OS and when you're
installing the developer tools make sure
you select vs vs BK and the x11 SDK so
you could develop x11 applications as
well so the toolchain is mostly new
based so you have GCC GT BG make we also
have BST make for transitional purposes
only but G make is the default and you
should be using that we have other tools
like Xcode environment that you saw in
the keynote interface builder and Malik
debug for the
logging and some other performance tools
that you can use to tune your
application there are three different
compilers installed on Dracula stem
three different versions of the c
compiler so you have 2.3 3.1 and 295 the
reason is we want to be able to target
kernel extensions back to 10.1 so you
need to use 295 and then for 10.1 10.2
we have 2.1 and for there are three ways
you can select the compiler the best
thing to do is just use GCC select that
will set your compiler that you want and
then everything else uses that or you
can set the option in xcode or you can
just call directly from the command line
to be whatever koala you want before
you're doing it yourself if you're
porting an open-source application check
porting environments according systems
that are available that if somebody has
port is already so there's Davenport's
Fink and Mac OS 10 downloads on my apple
site and if you do port it please submit
a port to the system so that you have a
large collection so the next person
comes along has a application already
ready to run porting script is very easy
it's just the same tools that you have
so you'll see shell pearl tickle these
are all installed by default our shell
is bash so you shouldn't be a problem
there if you want to script GUI
applications Apple script to your friend
so the mic Mamluk will explain how he
uses that quite easily so the end result
is very easy to bring your scripts to
micro Stan primary file system we use
hfs+ we have many many file systems of
my quest n the main one hfs+ has issued
not issues but differences from the ufs
which is the standard UNIX
process some people use case sensitive
is not their case preserving yes so when
you type a file name with a certain case
it'll preserve that but if you type the
same file name with the different
arrangement of cases then it will be the
same resource Forks so Mac OS 9 people
know what resource for Charlie and
generally we have added journaling to
hfs+ so it's faster and easier to
recover our sink X also supports hfs+ so
when you syncing files you can take
resource Forks along with you the issues
comes when traditional Mac users start
using Mac os10 to tend to put fire
spaces in filenames UNIX user know never
to put files to use spaces soccer games
always use extensions so Mac OS 9 users
have type and creator code so they stick
with that and then also some of the
application use resource Forks so you'll
have to worry about that and macro nice
users are used to using aliases as
opposed to links and for unix it doesn't
quite know what to do with aliases so
you have to be careful on that libraries
on Mac OS 10 we have our own linker and
the way we do our libraries it supports
versioning plugins and you have we
differentiate between bundles and
libraries the extension for the
libraries is delayed so if you use the
dot SOS you have to be careful static
linking is very rarely used so
everything is pretty much shared
frameworks I'll explain what frameworks
are which is also available and live
system which is a compasses lot of math
lib lipsy and other libraries that just
sits at the bottom so that everybody can
access that bundles water bundles
bundles are
things that you put together and make an
object so you can put execute executable
code other resources such as Nash
language translations and things like
that or you can have multiple
architectures of in the bundles and it's
very easy you just drag one item in the
finder to install and to an uninstall
and examples are you have frameworks
which are bundles and compound documents
such as RTF D which has text and images
and frameworks framework is a bundle
where you have the actual library the
headers the documentation other
resources that go along with it so that
you don't have to put your headers
somewhere else in the library somewhere
else they're all in one nice neat
package and they can be moved around
easily and they can be used system
libraries are installed in system
library frameworks where you should not
install those because Apple reserves
that place to install their own but you
should install them in either / library
frameworks network library frameworks in
your of users home directory library
frameworks or in the applications
contents frameworks depending on how you
want to expose the framework so it
depending on how it's done a two-level
namespace it's a very large issue or
topic that can't be covered in this talk
but it's basically how you access
variables with same name at global space
because we can have the same name in
different bundles and frameworks so
there's no collisions and things like
that and it was default starting in 10.1
but you can go back to flat file name
space if you want to but it's not
recommended runtime issues if you want
to save preferences system preferences
you should be using open directory and
if you want to save use it
preferences then NS preferences and CF
preferences their equivalent you should
be using that and startup scripts we vsv
never really had a good system to manage
start scripts so we developed our own
similar to system 5 and but ours is a
bundle so it has the script it has the
localization and and other documentation
that you want to put in there and
they're saved located in system library
startups for the apple of supplied ones
and then for you it's library startup
items pre binding because of the speed
that we want to gain from our linker we
pre bind the symbols at runtime so that
could cause a problem for applications
like backup and security because they
think it's the fireless change either
you can't get access or you can't back
them up so there you have to be careful
about that authentication and
authorization our system is rights based
system so you give a right to a user to
perform certain app actions and we have
great app API is to go with that the
Apple security framework is a good place
to start Pam is available for
compatibility reasons only so if you're
bringing you don't want to change a code
but CD art security framework based on
CD sa is is a better way to go GUI
options we have lots of great options
coco carbon x11 and now cutie trolltech
has made a dual license and open source
and a commercial version so you can get
a native mac OS 10 version of QT and use
that as well for multimedia you want
higher level mixed media cook time is
the way to go low level karate oak or
MIDI benefits is that's very fast it's
very
responsive and the cons is that you have
to write your device drivers because you
have to use io kit and onto I okay I
okay it is the low level where you can
access all your hardware and such as
disks mice everything it's based on
embedded C++ standard which does not
there's few things missing such as rtti
and multiple inheritance and things like
that but it's a great blue design object
oriented and it's very fast you only
have to do your part of the code you
don't have to worry about the other code
that you have to write for device
drivers if you come from other UNIX
systems GCC 295 if you want to have the
cash flowed on 10 1 10 2 and onwards
internationalization up we have CF
string and see if locale we which is
recommended API and now Panther has wrt
supported and you can use that but we
would recommend that you use yes string
and CF locale because we will bring
forward new precompiled headers Jaguar
had a problem with this but Panther has
a new way of doing precompiled headers
and it's much less of an issue than it
was on Jaguar you if you have a problem
that's the first place to start turn off
precompiled headers and usually stuff
works so to turn them off dash no CPP
pre comp and don't use traditional
because that's not recommend is
deprecated even though it turns off need
low p comp but you get the lesser level
of GCC or c standard linker apples on
linker it's it's a single pass so you
have to put your libraries and free
works at the end of your object files so
you can get symbols lazy initialization
of variables so it's really a problem
for C++ so that your static initializers
don't get called
so you have to be careful there and it
does pre binding shared flags not
support e so you should be using that
dynamic to make dynamic libraries so
what's new in Panther we have W car if i
convert ICU so all d its new but it's
not recommended for you to use at this
point because the binary compatibility
but if you really have to use then you
can use it it's ingress I oh yeah
everybody was asking for that pole it
didn't make it to this feed but it is
scheduled to go in so in the final
release you will have pole dlopen and dr
close same it's scheduled to go in but
didn't make it the dl clothes in deal
open library is the lib compact which is
available in downpours so in the
meantime you can use that and ports
manager GUI so this is large collection
of ports that are available so this is
nice gooey in the application utilities
we just double click and see the list of
applications that are available and then
just say install and then you have that
application available for is for GUI and
command-line tools so that's it for me
and we'll have Mike Bombeck come in and
explain how he uses his applescript to
thank you a car so what Kyra spent some
time basically giving you some of the
logistics moving your sis admin tools up
to Mac os10 what I would like to spend
some time on is telling you about how
you're going to get Mac users to
actually use them so let's face it Mac
users via gooey in the UNIX world goo is
a four-letter world word in in in the
macworld goo is essential Apple has
introduced several developer tools that
that make this a lot easier package
maker can help you with any command line
tools that you use to distribute
software they've got property list
editor in there for configuring for
editing any configuration files and then
there's a some other tools like Apple
script studio project builder interface
builder for actually putting a GUI on to
some of your command line based scripts
and that's what I'd like to focus my
time on is AB scripts to do Apple
scripts to do and i won't get into all
the various acronyms that people have
assigned to it it's it's based on three
technologies applescript project builder
and interface builder I was introduced
in Mac OS 10 12 so it's only supported
on that OS and higher and it's
implemented in the form of three project
templates in project builder and there's
over 30 sample product projects to help
you get started coding in Apple scripts
to do so some of this stuff is going to
be fairly basic and bear with me but as
much as this may go without saying it's
sometimes important to actually say it
developing a GUI step one is making sure
that it works at the command line you
want to make sure that all the
functionality of your script everything
that you want to get done is going to
work in a shell script in the clan line
environment how once you've got
everything working for one particular
scenario go ahead and generalize that
shell script to make sure it functions
in every possible scenario in your
environment another very important thing
to keep in mind is these are Mac people
out here while Mac people are very very
very intelligent
very intelligent they are not unix savvy
in general so you have to anticipate non
uzak non UNIX user input like maybe
spaces and past names and special
characters things like that so
anticipate non UNIX user input when
you're preparing your shell script so
once you have a shell script built and
it's doing all of yours just admin stuff
or whatever now it's time to go ahead
and create a project and project builder
there's three options you can make just
a regular apple script application and
this is the the most common thing you
can make a document based application if
you wanted to make something like a text
editor or you can make a droplet
application if you wanted to have the
functionality of being able to drop
files and folders on to the application
and then have it do something to those
files and folders after you've created
your project actually the first step
after you've created your project is to
mock up your interface and interface
builder now this is a very non-trivial
step in the UNIX world you write a shell
script it does something it may be ask
the user to type in some text with the
command line and as it's working maybe a
dump some text out a GUI is very
different than this you have many
different ways that you can have the
user give input you've got you know
buttons and menu items and checkboxes
all sorts of things like that and then
you have different ways of providing
output and giving people feedback as to
how things are going so you need to
think about how you're going to give
feedback to these or you've got progress
bars and dialogue windows and all sorts
of things so it is very important to
give the end user a really good
experience and not just dumped out text
or pop up a window and ask for text
so once you've mocked up your interface
you'll go back to project builder and
then you'll attach parts of your scripts
functionality to specific interface
objects so in Apple scripts to do you'll
use that du shell script function to
just take up a particular shell script
or just a particular command and attach
it to an action like the click of a
button one very important thing to
remember here is GUI applications are
not linear like shell scripts you're not
just going to write up your shell script
and plug it into a prescrip studio and
away you go you're probably gonna have
to break that script up and attach
specific actions or specific commands to
various things that happen within that
user interface how you'll probably use
global variables a lot more often
because of that non-linearity so some of
the other things that you're going to
want to keep in mind our security issues
that your script require admin
privileges if so how are you going to
get that password from the user is the
admin user even the login user you're
going to have to think about things like
this if you just have one command that
requires admin privileges then you can
just use Apps Script Studios built-in
functionality to retrieve the password
otherwise you want to consider prompting
the user for the password and storing it
in a variable you also want to think
about whether or not preferences would
suit this utility well as Apple script
studio provides as an object called a
user default object that you can use and
access to you can you can manipulate
that object access a preference file in
the user's preferences folder finally
you really need to keep in mind you need
to learn about your environment of
environmental variables and your working
directory don't just walk into this
thinking that you've got the same
working environment that you would at
the terminal you don't even have the
same shell there's actually a really
nice tech tech info article I think it's
called its number 2065 if anyone's
interested in learning about how to work
with D shell script and how it compares
to the terminal environment
okay so logistics aside let's go and
move over to the demo machine alright so
what we have here is you let's say that
you're you're an IT administrator and
your supervisor has just asked you with
creating a software library you've got
several hundred CDs and in the past
they've just been you know thrown on a
shelf or something and they get damaged
actually could you take me back to the
slides there was one slide that had all
this up there sorry about that so you've
got a couple hundred CDs usually they
get chucked on a shelf and scratched or
lost and a cds checked out so only one
person can access it at a time you
actually have to have one person that's
assigned the task of managing that
library and you'd rather not do that
maybe you'd rather be surfing the
internet so in the end it's just not a
very good system so what you've decided
to do is instead of sharing the actual
physical disk you notice that in Mac OS
10 there's an extensive disk images
framework and you notice if there's a
really cool thing that you can do you
can make disk images of the cds and then
stick them up on your ex or running the
apache web server and then you can host
these images remotely and with just this
little command right at the bottom you
can mount that disk image remotely so
you can host hundreds of images on your
server somewhere and then people could
remotely use this command and mount that
disk image right there on their desktop
and have access to it so now to the demo
alright so the first thing you want to
do is you want to kind of start out
basic just create a shell script that
implements that functionality so this is
probably a bit hard to see so we'll just
blow that up a little bit so you create
a basic shell script that includes the
path to that disk image or just one of
the disk images you didn't create a
hundred disk images you just started
with one and you included that in the
script and then the first thing it does
is just mounts that disk image so we'll
go ahead and run this script in the
terminal and you'll see what happens it
just mild flat disk image right there on
the desktop and you have access to all
the software there so it's a pretty
basic concept obviously this is not
going to be very scalable are you going
to include the URL to all 100 or 200 to
300 CD images probably not so the next
incarnation either side hey I've got a
great idea i'll just have the user enter
the URL this is great i'll never have to
touch the script again they just type in
the URL so why don't we go ahead and do
that we'll run this script enter the
path to Rupp half it's about a local
volume or or was it so we'll just go
ahead and type well pretend that I
actually know what I'm doing I can /
images / oh oh oh darn so you get the
point obviously this isn't going to to
be a very useful solution for your end
users so ideally you would want to keep
all of those the pats all of those
images right there in your script so
that's what we have here so in this
script you decide I'll just keep the the
addresses to all those images right here
in the script and I'll present that list
of the
either ask them to choose one and then
I'll mount the one that they choose so
this is pretty cool for garden run this
script so it presents a list 0 1 2 3 why
don't we go ahead and pick number one
and mom set disk image on a desktop so
that's that's another thing you can try
you realize though that's that's crazy I
mean if I want to add another disk image
to my CD library what am I going to do
am I going to edit that script and
redeploy to the 500 people that I had
already deployed it to probably not
that's going to be a maintenance
nightmare and didn't we start this
project to decrease maintenance in the
first place yeah we did so being the
clever IT guy that you are you notice
when you set the indexes the indexes
option directive in Apache and then go
out to a web page and select just the
image or the directory that the images
are hosted in you get this nice little
list of all the images dynamically
generated by Apache if you take a look
at the source you can see I can parse
the heck out of that
it's got a nice little tags right here I
can use that as a delimiter and maybe I
can do something like that as a limiter
but hey this is cool because this
dynamically generated a list of all the
images in this directory why don't I
just grab that list parse that list for
the images present that list of images
to the user the user picks an image I
mount the image so why don't we go ahead
and try that that's what this script is
what we do is we just have the base URL
in a variable and then we curl down the
list that Apache generated index we's
grep said awk whatever else you want to
use and believe me I'm sure there's
probably at least a dozen people out
there that can do this maybe three
letters or something but I'm not the guy
but in the end you've got this little
script that will parse out those image
names so like this little bit wider
we're going to run this script so you
can see the first thing that it was
really really very fast it curled down
that index file and then it presented
this and you can type like something
like clear after this to clear that out
makes a little prettier and then it
presents that list of images so why
don't we go ahead and choose number I'll
call out number 90 yeah number zero like
I said there's lots of people that could
have done this lot better so and there
we go it went ahead in mount of the
image that I selected so in just you
know what is that a dozen lines of code
you've created it you the clever IT guy
or girl has you've created this nice
little script that will will read a
dynamically generated list of disk
images in monetary end user so now that
we've got this script fully functional
in the the command line environment
we're going to go ahead and go over to
projects builder and oh look at that
there's already project-based made so
create a new project and we'll go ahead
just pick applescript application and
call it whatever and in the interest of
time I've already got all the detect
entered but it'll create this have this
project
for you and the first thing we'll do is
we'll go ahead and go into interface
builder and mock-up and interface now
this is going to be a very basic
application I mean the only thing that
we're doing we're presenting a list of
images to the user and they're going to
pick an image and they want to mount it
so we really only need a couple
interface items here I've got a table
with my inspector tool thank you it's on
by default in mine well go into the
inspector and we'll give our table a
name called the images or that's the
view and then the table and then we've
got just this other button will call it
mount image and when this button is
clicked we want it to do something in
this the script right here so we attach
some functionality to the clicked
handler in the application applescript
so this is really all there is to
mocking up this interface just a table
view and a button and don't say so we've
got our interface mocked up why don't we
go and go back to interface builder and
take a look at the script now when you
click on that check box and interface
builder that attacked attaches that on
clicked handler to that button it
automatically generates some handlers
inside of your Apple script so the first
thing that we're going to do is instead
of having to have the user actually do
something to generate that list I just
want it generated automatically as soon
as the application is launched so we're
going to use the on awake from nib
handler and what it's going to do it
will create how about we just do this
look
is that better okay it's not too
important I'm kind of pretty much to
talk you through it so we're going to
dynamically generate the data source
it's just a detail but then I've got
basically two functions this extract
image named function and then the
populate table function so the extract
image names function is going to use the
du shell script command right here to
curl down that dynamically generated
index and then these some various stuff
to parse out the information now wait
you can see here I you said but I also
use some apple script to do some parsing
I honestly don't care I'm not a hardcore
applescript guy that says i'm going to
use apple script and use do shell script
is very little as possible I'm not a
UNIX guy that says i'm going to use
octal day i die i use use whatever works
and i found out that you know you saw
that item 0 that was alt whatever i
could not figure out how to get that
fixed so i just decided to throw in from
applescript and use that to help me do
the parsing so this is actually a very
nice tool in that you can mix multiple
environments to get the desired result
so in the end I just returned that list
of images and then we populate that
table so that's what happened on startup
now I've got this on click handler and
this is going to be very simple the user
will pick an item in that table beyond
click handler will determine the index
of that item and then pull that whatever
item that is out of the list of disk
images which is kept in a global
variable and then it will do shell
script HDI you to amount and that
particular disk image and then I provide
some feedback because you're working in
this application and something's
happening somewhere else so I'm just
going to throw up a dialogue there that
says the image should now be mounted on
your desktop so we'll go ahead and build
and run this application and well it was
really fast lot faster my powerbook so
it the first thing I did was it curl
down that dynamically generated index
page parsed out that list present
populates this table with that list of
items and now the user can
pick an item and why are we going to
pick this one click on an item click on
Mount image in which should now be
mounted on your desktop so that is all
there is to it so let's go ahead and go
back to slides and you can get really
fancy with this that was a very very
simple example bah you can give very
very I don't know what happened to my
image but safe weekend
give you an example what this looks like
actually I think this is an older
version yeah that's nice
but you can get very very fancy with
this and we'll just open up the nib file
oh sorry could you switch back to the
demo machine so like I said you can get
really fancy with this you can create
preferences good grief that's a really
old version and you can throw in lots of
functionality and make something so
fancy that it can clone one just another
that's that's one thing that I've done
but this is a great tool and basically
you can you can do just about anything
if you use apples developer tool to put
a GUI on your script and you can really
extend it to too many other audiences so
with that I think I'll go ahead and hand
this back over to skip
thank you we tried to make it fun try to
present a wide range of information for
system administrators coming from a lot
of different areas these are some some
more information obviously a good place
to start if you're brand new to the
platform gotta read inside maca with ten
system overview the eunuch sporting
guide is also an excellent place to
start the tech note that Mike mentioned
calling applescript from an application
excellent and mike has the is offered
the source code for the application he
just demoed up on his website and he'll
keep that up there for some period of
time and there's the URL for that thank
you Mike who to contact bringing over an
application of some of the larger
applications any place you get hung up
or stuck that's exactly what developer
relations is for in contact myself I'm
the server technology evangelist with
car Malik and developer technical
support that's exactly what they're
there for and Mike Bombeck has even
relented to to be contact directly as
well Kevin void at the University of
Michigan's immaculate end employment
coordinator should you wish to talk to
him it's been a good week for you
mission already I think Redmond d in
fugu were both honored at the Apple
Design Awards he's also remember the
rsync X development team roadmap
obviously some of these sessions have
already happened so be sure to check
them out on the dvds or Apple tools for
the unix developer introduction to the
tools swede GCC and debugging and then
of course I think wealth of information
at Mac os10 labs org yes and don't enter
space that URL or you won't get a nasty
surprise and obviously being an open
source project you can find the source
code to our sink
underscore HFS that opened darwin dot
org applescript studio sessions salsa
going on is going to deliver a session
called applescript versus admin that's
really free willing he's going to he's
going to go into a lot more detail about
how to take really fun things you never
thought you could do with applescript
attaching very nice buoys to command
line tools and with that I'd like to
open it up to the Q&A
you